The use of the Spring Expression Language,
SpEL,
in Spring Security for authorization is one of the features
which makes Spring Security so powerful.
SpEL supports querying and manipulating an object graph at runtime,
both within XML- based and annotation-based configuration and bean definitions.
It supports many different operations for relational,
for comparison, logical, such as and or not,
conditional, if, then, else, regular expressions,
and many more,
which can be used in conjunction with Spring Security expressions to simplify
customizing your authorization requirements at the URL,
method, and domain levels.
Now some of the key security expressions we will be
using in this module are the has role,
which returns true if the current principal has a specified role,
hasAnyRole returns true if the current principal has any of the supplied roles,
the principal object.
Now this gives you direct access to the principal,
which represents the currently logged in user.
The authentication gives you access to the Authentication
object that is added to the SecurityContext.
The permitAll.
This just evaluates to true and allows everybody to access the resource.
And the denyAll basically blocks all access by returning false.
IsAnonymous returns true if the current principal is an anonymous user.
IsRememberMe returns true if the current principal is a remember-me user.
And isAuthenticated returns true if the user is not anonymous.
Now these three allow you to fine-tune your authorization
based on how the user was authenticated.
And finally,
isFullyAuthenticated returns true if the user is not
an anonymous or a remember-me user.
Now as you can see,
these expressions give you a lot of flexibility to
restrict access to your application.
We will be heavily using these expressions in the next sections, so you will become a lot more familiar with them.